Getting Started
Guides
MapReduce
HDFS
Common
Deployment Layout
File System Shell
Service Level Authorization
Native Libraries
Miscellaneous

PDF -icon
PDF
Service Level Authorization Guide
Purpose
Prerequisites
Overview
Configuration
Enable Service Level Authorization
Hadoop Services and Configuration Properties
Access Control Lists
Refreshing Service Level Authorization Configuration
Examples
Purpose
This document describes how to configure and manage Service Level Authorization for Hadoop.

Prerequisites
Make sure Hadoop is installed, configured and setup correctly. For more information see:

Single Node Setup for first-time users.
Cluster Setup for large, distributed clusters.
Overview
Service Level Authorization is the initial authorization mechanism to ensure clients connecting to a particular Hadoop service have the necessary, pre-configured, permissions and are authorized to access the given service. For example, a MapReduce cluster can use this mechanism to allow a configured list of users/groups to submit jobs.

The ${HADOOP_CONF_DIR}/hadoop-policy.xml configuration file is used to define the access control lists for various Hadoop services.

Service Level Authorization is performed much before to other access control checks such as file-permission checks, access control on job queues etc.

Configuration
This section describes how to configure service-level authorization via the configuration file {HADOOP_CONF_DIR}/hadoop-policy.xml.

Enable Service Level Authorization
By default, service-level authorization is disabled for Hadoop. To enable it set the configuration property hadoop.security.authorization to true in ${HADOOP_CONF_DIR}/core-site.xml.

Hadoop Services and Configuration Properties
This section lists the various Hadoop services and their configuration knobs:

Property	Service
security.client.protocol.acl	ACL for ClientProtocol, which is used by user code via the DistributedFileSystem.
security.client.datanode.protocol.acl	ACL for ClientDatanodeProtocol, the client-to-datanode protocol for block recovery.
