... that Paratropis tuxtlensis (pictured), a newly discovered species of spider, coats its body in soil, apparently to conceal itself?
... that Michael Botticelli is the first director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to state that he is in recovery for a substance abuse problem?
... that "Jaga Dia Untukku", a song by Siti Nurhaliza, was inspired by feelings about her husband's motorcycle accident?
... that …milie Tremblay grew radishes and lettuces on the sod roof of her cabin in the Yukon?
... that the short-lived MGM-PathÈ Communications was formed in 1990 when Giancarlo Parretti purchased MGM/UA Communications Inc. and merged it with his PathÈ Communications Group?
... that after Arsenal's defeat in the 2005 FA Community Shield, manager ArsËne Wenger stated, "no-one regards it as a trophy so I do not mind anymore"?
... that on Kuntry Livin', recording artist Big Smo blends country music and hip hop in a style known as hick hop?
Archive ñ Start a new article ñ Nominate an article
In the news
Aircraft used for Malaysia Airlines Flight 17
Militants attack a checkpoint in Egypt's western desert region, killing 22 soldiers.
In golf, Rory McIlroy wins the Open Championship.
The Cook Islands Party retains its majority in the Cook Islands general election.
Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 (aircraft pictured), en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, is shot down in eastern Ukraine, killing all 298 people on board.
Israel launches a ground invasion of the Gaza Strip.
Militants attack two checkpoints in the Chaambi Mountains, Tunisia, killing fourteen soldiers.
Typhoon Rammasun causes at least 94 deaths in the Philippines and at least 18 in China.
The BRICS summit is held in Brazil.
Ongoing: Ukrainian unrest
Recent deaths: James Garner ñ Elaine Stritch ñ Karl Albrecht ñ Johnny Winter

On this day...
July 22: Feast day of Mary Magdalene; Pi Approximation Day

Wiley Post

838 ñ ArabñByzantine wars: The forces of the Abbasid Caliphate defeated Byzantine Empire troops, led by Emperor Theophilos himself, at the Battle of Anzen near present-day Dazman, Turkey.
1864 ñ American Civil War: Confederate forces unsuccessfully attacked Union troops at the Battle of Atlanta.
1933 ñ Wiley Post (pictured) became the first pilot to fly solo around the world, landing after a seven-day, nineteen-hour flight at Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn, New York City.
1992 ñ Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar escaped from his luxurious private prison and spent the next 17 months on the run.
2011 ñ Two sequential terrorist attacks in Oslo and Ut¯ya claimed the lives of 77 people in the deadliest attack in Norway since World War II.
More anniversaries: July 21 ñ July 22 ñ July 23

Archive ñ By email ñ List of historical anniversaries
It is now July 22, 2014 (UTC) ñ Reload this page
Today's featured picture
 Male and female
A female (top) and male orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster), photographed in Melaleuca, Tasmania, Australia. First described by John Latham, this small parrot breeds only in South West Tasmania. Fewer than 50 individuals are known in the wild, and the species is considered critically endangered, though there is a captive breeding population.

Photograph: JJ Harrison
Recently featured: Beppe Grillo ñ Crew of Apollo 11 ñ Soldier fly

Archive ñ More featured pictures...
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal ñ Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk ñ Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy ñ For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk ñ Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news ñ Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump ñ For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.
