The Apache Software Foundation
provides support for the Apache community of open-source software projects, which provide software products for the public good.
The Apache projects are defined
by collaborative consensus based processes, an open, pragmatic software license and a desire to create high quality software that leads the way in its field.
Featured Projects ªApache TomEE Apache OpenMeetings Apache Tobago
The ASF is made up of nearly 150
top level projects which cover a wide range of technologies. Chances are if you are looking for a rewarding experience in Open Source, you are going to find it here.
Apache TomEE
Apache TomEE is an all-Apache Java EE 6 Web Profile stack for Apache Tomcat
Apache TomEE Web Profile delivers Servlets, JSP, JSF, JTA, JPA, CDI, Bean Validation and EJB Lite. Apache TomEE Plus has all the features of TomEE with the addition of JAX-RS (RESTfull Services), JAX-WS (Web Services), JMS (Java Message Service) and JCA (the Java Connector Architecture). The additional functionality is delivered via Apache CXF, Apache ActiveMQ and the Geronimo Connector library
Latest News
If you would like to keep up with news and announcements from the foundation and all its projects, you can subscribe to the Apache Announcements List or follow the Foundation Blog.

The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apacheô Tezô as a Top-Level Project
Highly-efficient Open Source framework for Apache HadoopÆ YARN-powered data processing applications in use at Microsoft, NASA, Netflix, and Yahoo, among others. 

Forest Hill, MD ñ22 July 2014ñ The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 170 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today that...
The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apacheô Log4jô v2
Framework for widely-used Open Source Java-based logging library now faster and more extensible, with new plugin architecture.

Forest Hill, MD ñ22 July 2014ñ The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 170 Open Source projects and initiatives, announced today the General Availability of Apacheô...
Travel Assistance Applications Now Open for ApacheCon Europe: Budapest 17-21 November 2014
The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)'s Travel Assistance Committee (TAC) is now accepting applications for ApacheCon Europe 2014, taking place 17-21 November in Budapest, Hungary.

The TAC is seeking individuals from the Apache community at-large, users, developers, educators, students, Committers, and Members, who would like to attend ApacheCon, but need some...
The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apacheô Tezô as a Top-Level Project
> This announcement is also available online at http://s.apache.org/keG
 
Highly-efficient Open Source framework for Apache HadoopÆ YARN-powered data processing applications in use at Microsoft, NASA, Netflix, and Yahoo, among others. 
 
Forest Hill, MD ñ22 July 2014ñ The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of...
The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apacheô Log4jô v2
> This announcement is also available online at http://s.apache.org/wm
 
Framework for widely-used Open Source Java-based logging library now faster and more extensible, with new plugin architecture. 
 
Forest Hill, MD ñ22 July 2014ñ The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards, and incubators of more than 170 Open...
[ANNOUNCE] Apache Jackrabbit Oak 1.0.2 released
The Apache Jackrabbit community is pleased to announce the release of Apache Jackrabbit Oak 1.0.2. The release is available for download at:
 
http://jackrabbit.apache.org/downloads.html
 
See the full release notes below for details about this release.
 
Release Notes -- Apache Jackrabbit Oak -- Version 1.0.2
 
Introduction ------------
 ...
Latest Activity
This is an overview of activity going on with our projects. SVN commits, bug reports, tweets, you name it.
