July 22: Feast day of Mary Magdalene; Pi Approximation Day

Wiley Post

838 ñ ArabñByzantine wars: The forces of the Abbasid Caliphate defeated Byzantine Empire troops, led by Emperor Theophilos himself, at the Battle of Anzen near present-day Dazman, Turkey.
1864 ñ American Civil War: Confederate forces unsuccessfully attacked Union troops at the Battle of Atlanta.
1933 ñ Wiley Post (pictured) became the first pilot to fly solo around the world, landing after a seven-day, nineteen-hour flight at Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn, New York City.
1992 ñ Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar escaped from his luxurious private prison and spent the next 17 months on the run.
2011 ñ Two sequential terrorist attacks in Oslo and Ut¯ya claimed the lives of 77 people in the deadliest attack in Norway since World War II.
More anniversaries: July 21 ñ July 22 ñ July 23

Archive ñ By email ñ List of historical anniversaries
It is now July 22, 2014 (UTC) ñ Reload this page
Today's featured picture
 Male and female
A female (top) and male orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster), photographed in Melaleuca, Tasmania, Australia. First described by John Latham, this small parrot breeds only in South West Tasmania. Fewer than 50 individuals are known in the wild, and the species is considered critically endangered, though there is a captive breeding population.

Photograph: JJ Harrison
Recently featured: Beppe Grillo ñ Crew of Apollo 11 ñ Soldier fly

Archive ñ More featured pictures...
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal ñ Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk ñ Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy ñ For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk ñ Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news ñ Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump ñ For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:

Commons	Commons
Free media repository	MediaWiki	MediaWiki
Wiki software development	Meta-Wiki	Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination
Wikibooks	Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals	Wikidata	Wikidata
Free knowledge base	Wikinews	Wikinews
Free-content news
Wikiquote	Wikiquote
Collection of quotations	Wikisource	Wikisource
Free-content library	Wikispecies	Wikispecies
Directory of species
Wikiversity	Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities	Wikivoyage	Wikivoyage
Free travel guide	Wiktionary	Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus
Wikipedia languages
This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001, it currently contains 4,562,552 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.

